And you shall be satisfied.
Here, stand behind this bulk; straight will he come:
Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it home:
Quick, quick; fear nothing; I'll be at thy elbow:
It makes us, or it mars us; think on that,
And fix most firm thy resolution.
Here, at thy hand: be bold, and take thy stand.
I have rubb'd this young quat almost to the sense,
And he grows angry. Now, whether he kill Cassio,
Or Cassio him, or each do kill the other,
Every way makes my gain: live Roderigo,
He calls me to a restitution large
Of gold and jewels that I bobb'd from him,
As gifts to Desdemona;
It must not be: if Cassio do remain,
He hath a daily beauty in his life
That makes me ugly; and, besides, the Moor
May unfold me to him; there stand I in much peril:
No, he must die. But so: I hear him coming.
Who's there? whose noise is this that ones on murder?
Did not you hear a cry?
What's the matter?
What are you here that cry so grievously?
O me, lieutenant! what villains have done this?
O treacherous villains!
What are you there? come in, and give some help.
O murderous slave! O villain!
Kill men i' the dark!—Where be these bloody thieves?—
How silent is this town!—Ho! murder! murder!—
What may you be? are you of good or evil?
Signior Lodovico?
I cry you mercy. Here's Cassio hurt by villains.
How is't, brother!
Marry, heaven forbid!
Light, gentlemen; I'll bind it with my shirt.
Who is't that cried!
O notable strumpet! Cassio, may you suspect
Who they should be that have thus many led you?
Lend me a garter. So. O, for a chair,
To bear him easily hence!
Gentlemen all, I do suspect this trash
To be a party in this injury.
Patience awhile, good Cassio. Come, come;
Lend me a light. Know we this face or no?
Alas my friend and my dear countryman
Roderigo! no:—yes, sure: O heaven! Roderigo.
Even he, sir; did you know him?
Signior Gratiano? I cry you gentle pardon;
These bloody accidents must excuse my manners,
That so neglected you.
How do you, Cassio? O, a chair, a chair!
He, he 'tis he.
[A chair brought in]
O, that's well said; the chair!
[To BIANCA] What, look you pale? O, bear him out
o' the air.
[CASSIO and RODERIGO are borne off]
Stay you, good gentlemen. Look you pale, mistress?
Do you perceive the gastness of her eye?
Nay, if you stare, we shall hear more anon.
Behold her well; I pray you, look upon her:
Do you see, gentlemen? nay, guiltiness will speak,
Though tongues were out of use.
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark
By Roderigo and fellows that are scaped:
He's almost slain, and Roderigo dead.
This is the fruit of whoring. Prithee, Emilia,
Go know of Cassio where he supp'd to-night.
[To BIANCA]
What, do you shake at that?
O, did he so? I charge you, go with me.
Kind gentlemen, let's go see poor Cassio dress'd.
Come, mistress, you must tell's another tale.
Emilia run you to the citadel,
And tell my lord and lady what hath happ'd.
Will you go on? I pray.
[Aside]
This is the night
That either makes me or fordoes me quite.
I told him what I thought, and told no more
Than what he found himself was apt and true.
I did. 
With Cassio, mistress. Go to, charm your tongue.
What, are you mad? I charge you, get you home.
Come, hold your peace.
Be wise, and get you home.
Villanous whore!
Filth, thou liest!
I bleed, sir; but not kill'd.
Demand me nothing: what you know, you know:
From this time forth I never will speak word.
